Dixon went in the house, got the keys,
backed out the cyber truck.
Mr. Dixon was intoxicated and on drugs.
>> These [music] kids were hanging out
before Thanksgiving. They'd all come
home from college and they were doing
what kids do. The cybert truck [music]
rounds a curve and crashes into a tree.
>> I turn the corner and I just see a car
in a ball of flame.
>> A friend of theirs tries to push the
buttons to open the passenger [music]
side door both for the front passenger
and the back passenger. Nothing happens.
doors are all activated [music] by this
uh low voltage battery that's right up
at the front of the vehicle where this
impact took place. This vehicle [music]
is designed where there is no exterior
handle and on [music] the interior uh
there's no handle of a normal nature.
>> It's not only that you know these kids
can't get out from [music] the inside.
This person who is there to save them
can't get in from the outside. So he
[music] picks up a branch and after
hitting it probably over a dozen times,
it finally cracks and breaks.
>> Broke the front and back windows on the
passenger [music] side and I pulled the
front passenger out.
The friend goes in to try [music]
to get Christa and she reaches her arm
out and he grabs her arm, but she
she pulls back because [music] the fire
is just so hot. And so he goes to the
back door and tries to to get to her
[music] from from the backside.
>> It was too much fire and airbags and I
couldn't get to the rest of them.
A lawsuit has been filed over the deadly
cyber truck crash in Pedmont last
November. Saren Dixon, 19, Jack Nelson,
20, and Chrisa Sukahara, 19, all died.
>> While the police report doesn't include
any conclusions about whether the doors
played a part in the aftermath [music]
of the crash, the Sukahara family has
sued Tesla.
In the lawsuit, they alleged Tesla's
design choices created a highly
foreseeable risk that rear seat
occupants who survived a crash would
nevertheless remain trapped when the
vehicle caught fire.
>> We get the autopsies [music]
and it's clear these kids were alive
after this car crashed. They didn't have
blunt force injuries. They died because
they suffocated. [music]
It's the worst [music] nightmare ever. I
have a hole in my heart that will never
heal. [snorts] She was the best daughter
a mother could ever ask for.
[music]
Tesla for years has built its reputation
on being a cool, safe, good-looking car
maker. Tesla is engineered to be the
safest car in the world. And to be fair
to them, they have [music] done very
well on US crash tests. They often get
fivestar ratings. Flush door handles
were very much part of the aesthetic and
the engineering. You know, it looks very
cool.
For so many years, people who drive
Teslas love their Teslas. They think
their cars are safe. But
this accident, this these accidents
reveal that there's actually something
bigger going on.
I've been working on Teslas, oh man,
I would say probably
12 years, maybe. A lot of companies have
uh touch pads and things like that, but
Tesla really had a a stunning design
when they decided, you know what, we're
going to have them come out when you
want to enter the vehicle and then go
back in. So, it gives it a nice smooth
look.
>> Rich Benoir co-owns EV Specialists The
Electrified Garage. He's owned multiple
Teslas. He's a fan. But back in 2018, he
flagged this to his large [music]
YouTube following.
>> You are not a true Tesla Model S owner
until your car has been on a flatbed or
one of your door handles have developed
an issue where you can no longer enter
the vehicle.
>> Since then, Tesla has produced millions
of cars and they can be found all over
the world. Once it goes to the masses
and you start making cars on a scale of
like 2 3 4 and 5 million that's when you
know gen pop as they say have access to
the vehicles and when they do not all of
them know the uh the pitfalls ups and
downs of having door handles like that.
When you push this button sends a signal
to the you know the 12vt barrier to say
okay pop the door open. Now, if you have
no 12volt power, the first thing you're
going to do is push this button over and
over again. You're going to start
freaking out and realize this thing
isn't working. In my opinion, this isn't
terribly obvious that this opens the
door. This is not a physical lever. This
does not pull a cable. The actual way
that you open a Tesla is you use this
unmarked square right here. That's how
you open it.
>> Is that the same on every model of
Tesla?
>> It is not the same. What if you're in
the back seat?
>> Now, the back seat is a scary part.
>> So, in the front seat, they're by the
handle. In the back seats, they might be
[music] under the rug or behind a
speaker grill or behind the trim on the
door. Or, I actually found one in a
Model Y. It was in the door pocket under
a plastic flap. A lot of Tesla owners
themselves don't know that these manual
releases [music] exist.
You can design the best vehicle in the
world, but you have to also think about
what happens to a human being after a
crash. You are panicking and you're
going to go to that muscle memory. And
for most of us, muscle memory is like an
old car where you just open the door.
I went down a rabbit hole just trying to
find more information like, has this
happened before?
And I found one in Wisconsin which
sounded very similar.
>> Jesus Christ.
>> They crash into a tree. The car catches
fire.
>> So we think three or four.
>> Now what we find out when we read the
police report is that there were five
people in this car and the people in the
back seat their bodies are found in the
front seat. And one of the images says
on the body bag, "Female found climbing
next to driver."
>> According to the police report,
detectives noted due to the number of
the bodies in the front seats, it
appeared as though they were trying to
get out.
>> There have been other accidents.
>> I don't know if they relate. It might be
a Tesla. I haven't seen anyone. From
what we heard, someone was trapped
inside.
>> There was a cybert truck accident in
Texas. There was a crash in Miami.
Elijah Arena, star basketball player in
Southern California, crashes in a cyber
truck, can't open the door, has to bash
the the window out with [music] his
feet. Some of them happened on rural
roads in, you know, the south. Uh, in
some cases, the driver has never been
identified because they were burned
beyond recognition. But larger than the
fatalities are just regular consumers.
[music]
All of a sudden, they can't get into
their car and, you know, they're calling
911. We've just come to realize that
there's more. There's more than we knew.
From 2018 on, we found over 140
complaints about Tesla's doors. [music]
Kids have gotten stuck in their Teslas.
Pets get stuck in [music] Teslas.
Elderly people get stuck in Teslas.
Owners who were in the grocery store
buckling their kid into the car seat and
then they went around to open their door
and lo and behold, the battery had died.
They had never gotten a notice about it.
And then they're frantically trying to
rescue their child. These complaints
have been known for quite some time
because [music] as we've also reported,
Nitsa has a pretty publicly accessible
database of complaints from owners.
>> Consumers have also complained that
flush or fully concealed handles like
that on the [music] Cybert truck make it
harder for people trying to rescue those
stuck in a car.
After Bloomberg published [music] an
investigation in September 2025 on
Tesla's doors, the US regulator Nitsa,
[music] the National Highway Traffic
Safety Administration said it opened a
defect investigation into Tesla Model Y
door handles.
>> It's quite likely that the complaints
that Nitsa gets are just a tiny drop in
the bucket of what consumers are
actually experiencing in terms of issues
with their cars.
>> This is only in the United States,
right?
>> This is only in the United States. We
have Toronto. There's, you know, cases
we've read about in Germany.
>> In Germany, part of the challenge is the
data privacy issues are are really
prevalent. But I do think that we're
making serious headway and getting a
better sense from a regulatory
perspective.
>> Regulators in the United States are
increasingly [music] finding themselves
under pressure and at times face
criticism for alleged inaction.
That's where plaintiffs, lawyers, and
safety advocates [music] say private
litigation can be more effective in
imposing accountability and offering
victims a sense of redress.
The Sukahara family's lawyers allege an
expert [music] inspection of the vehicle
concluded there was nothing physically
or mechanically keeping the door [music]
from opening.
>> Had the door open, Christa would have
been able to be extracted, [music]
whether on her own power or by Mr.
Rearen who is there has already saved
Mr. Miller.
>> Tesla [music] has said its vehicles meet
or exceed all applicable safety
standards.
In response to a lawsuit by the family
of Jack Nelson, who died alongside
Christa Sukahara in the Pedmont crash,
the company said it shouldn't be held
responsible for the accident or its
result, citing among almost two dozen
offenses the conduct of others.
A toxicology report showed that Saurin
Dixon, the driver of the Cybertruck, who
also died in the crash, had a blood
alcohol level that exceeded the legal
limit.
When your chief of police and the priest
shows up at your door at 7:30 in the
morning, it's usually not a good thing.
I screamed. I screamed a lot.
I miss her terribly. Sorry.
And I don't want anyone else to go
through this. I want this to be fixed
immediately. And I want people to know,
maybe people don't even know
that these doors do this. I I didn't
know there's like some secret like
like latch or whatever to release the
doors. Who would know that? Who would
know that? Why would you need to do that
in a vehicle? You should be able to open
the door and get out if something
happens. And that is why I want to do
this today. I want people to know
to be safe in what what if they are
driving this vehicle
what could happen. I think they need to
recall all of these vehicles off the
road and fix it immediately. The federal
government needs to step in and [snorts]
address this as well. And
it's it's not okay.
At the time of recording, Tesla faced at
least eight lawsuits alleging problems
with doors and enttrapment.
Tesla has not been found liable with
regard to any of these incidents.
I don't know if the actual like dollar
figure is going to really matter for,
you know, a trillion plus dollar
company. But I think the more lawsuits
there are and the more attention there
is on it, the more likely there's going
to be the pressure to actually uh, you
know, address it, whether it's
redesigning cars or or otherwise.
Since we published our story, [music]
Tesla's chief designer has said they're
looking into redesigning the doors.
>> We actually have a mechanical release
that's, you know, basically right at the
the electronic one, too. And we're
combining the two. So, [music] that's
something that we're working on. Yeah.
>> Is Tesla looking at the design of the
door manual override? So I can tell you
that uh the board takes uh very ser
seriously [music] any safety related
reporting or any um uh incidents of of
any type uh uh globally in terms of what
we look at [music]
>> what the fix is and the timeline for
that fix is not something that we have a
lot of insight into although you know we
would love to know and we keep asking.
>> Tesla has had problems with its doors
going back to 2013 with Elon Musk
himself acknowledging it. quite a fancy
door handle and occasionally the sensor
would malfunction on the door handle.
But we've addressed that at at root
cause and so um
essentially the door handle incidents
have gone to virtually zero.
>> So a question being raised by the
litigation is should Tesla or the
regulator Nitsa be doing more?
Part of the problem is that crash tests
are currently designed to measure impact
[music] survivability,
not whether occupants can escape quickly
afterwards.
>> Safety standards in the United States
were written before the electric vehicle
revolution really hit. We are moving at
a at a way faster speed than our
regulatory system [music] has managed to
keep up.
>> And while the US regulator Nitsa is
investigating Tesla, [music] it's
unclear how long that might take.
What might force Tesla's [music] hand is
the company's second largest market,
China, where a ban on doors with flush
handles, is being [music] considered.
It's a huge issue in China, where there
have been a couple of fatal crashes
involving Xiaomi, which is a big
competitor to Tesla globally actually.
And I'm very curious to see what happens
on the regulatory front in Europe and in
China. Um, you know, China tends [music]
to move very fast given the centralized
government. New rules from Chinese
regulators could have a serious [music]
impact across the entire automotive
industry. While flush [music] electric
handles initially set Teslas apart, many
of the company's competitors [music]
have since imitated them in an effort to
cash in on Tesla's success.
A 2023 market research study revealed
consumers were increasingly critical of
non-traditional door handles, with seven
of the [music] 10 most problematic
models being EVs.
Tesla's not alone. It's a crisis that's
like gaining momentum among a whole
cross-section of dozens and dozens of
models. The summaries uh among these
complaints are haunting and they echo a
lot of the original reporting uh from
the Tesla story.
>> What other automakers are people
complaining about?
>> The ID4 was among sort of the the bigger
complaints. Riven Fisker Oceans proved
to be problematic. high-end vehicles.
>> And are the numbers going up? Like give
us a sense of the scale there.
>> They're going up. So, a decade ago, this
was a a rare finding exclusive to one or
two models. Uh now it's really growing
to the tune of almost 50% in growth from
just 2023 to 2024.
>> For now though, Tesla remains firmly in
the spotlight.
>> I mean, there's a reason why millions
have been made. They still get the
highest crash test ratings. They're
super high in terms of how people love
their vehicles. They have a cult-like
following.
>> The company has sold over 8 million
vehicles worldwide.
And every single one of those doors is
electrically powered.
>> It's predictable that a vehicle is going
to get a crash at 58 mph. That's not
[music] out of the realm of what can
happen. It's predictable and reasonable
that a vehicle might burst into fire uh
like this one did. You need to have a
design that allows people to get out of
the vehicle if they need to. Tesla has
the ability to recall their vehicles
right now. [music] They have the
absolute ability to do that and fix the
problem. Uh and they haven't done it.
>> She was trying to get out, but she
couldn't. She was trapped.
And it's my worst nightmare. [music]
I've had visions of her
yelling,
"Mom, dad, anything," right?
And being so scared.
And I wish I could have been there for
her to protect her [snorts] because it's
not fair. It's not fair. She was in the
safest seat and her door was not blocked
by anything
and she should be alive.
And it it's not okay. It's not okay.
>> [music]